KSFileUtilities contains a variety of useful methods for handling URLs, paths and other aspects of file management. Here's a selection of them grouped by purpose:

Query Parameters
================

It's common for URLs to split their query string up into a dictionary-like series of parameters. e.g.

    http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_page&action=raw

`KSURLQueryUtilities` has an easy solution for getting that into a more Cocoa-friendly form:

    - (NSDictionary *)ks_queryParameters;

There are also APIs for creating/deriving new URLs from a dictionary:

    - (NSURL *)ks_URLWithQueryParameters:(NSDictionary *)parameters;
    
	+ (NSURL *)ks_URLWithScheme:(NSString *)scheme
	                       host:(NSString *)host
	                       path:(NSString *)path
	            queryParameters:(NSDictionary *)parameters;

KSURLFormatter
==============

An `NSFormatter` subclass for a variety of URL display and input tasks.

- Non-complete URLs like `example` and `example.com` generate full `http://example.com/` URL
- Host URLs have a slash appended to them. e.g. `http://example.com` is displayed/interpreted as `http://example.com/`
- Convenience `+URLFromString:` method that takes care of unescaped characters

`KSURLFormatter` can encode Internationalized Domain Names if it has a suitable backend. For Mac OS X projects, you can include `KSEncodeURLString.*` and link against `WebKit.framework` to get this for free. For other projects, supply your own by one of:

* Call `+[KSURLFormatter setEncodeStringValueTransformer:]`
* Call `+[NSValueTransformer setValueTransformer:forName:]` before `+encodeStringValueTransformer` is called
* Name your custom class `KSEncodeURLString`

Decoding is performed by IFUnicodeURL. Make sure you handle its licensing appropriately — see the Licensing section of this document for details.

KSURLComponents
===============

A clone of `NSURLComponents` for Cocoa releases older than iOS 7.

URL Normalization
=================

The KSURLNormalization category implements normalization as documented by [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/URL_normalization).

Relative Strings
================

`NSURL` is fully equipped to resolve relative strings against another URL, but sadly there's no API to go in the opposite direction. KSURLUtilities to the rescue!

	- (NSString *)ks_stringRelativeToURL:(NSURL *)URL;
	- (NSURL *)ks_URLRelativeToURL:(NSURL *)URL;

How's this work? Well, everyone loves examples right?

<table>
	<tr><th>Receiver</th><th>relativeToURL:</th><th>Return Value</th></tr>
	<tr><td>http://karelia.com/foo/bar/</td><td>http://karelia.com/</td><td>foo/bar/</td></tr>
	<tr><td>http://karelia.com/foo/example.png</td><td>http://karelia.com/</td><td>foo/example.png</td></tr>
	<tr><td>http://karelia.com/foo/bar/</td><td>http://example.com/</td><td>http://karelia.com/foo/bar/</td></tr>
	<tr><td>http://karelia.com/</td><td>http://karelia.com/foo/bar/</td><td>../../</td></tr>
	<tr><td>http://karelia.com/baz/index.xml</td><td>http://karelia.com/foo/bar/</td><td>../../baz/index.xml</td></tr>
</table>

Relative Paths
--------------

KSPathUtilities has an equivalent for operating on path strings: `-ks_pathRelativeToDirectory:`

Subpaths
========

To test if one URL/path contains another:

	- [NSURL ks_isSubpathOfURL:]
	- [NSString ks_isSubpathOfPath:]

Host
====

Nothing fancy here, just a few additions to the built-in `-[NSURL host]` method.

	- (NSURL *)ks_hostURL;
	
Strips a URL down to nothing but its scheme and host. e.g. `http://karelia.com/foo/bar/` becomes `http://karelia.com/`

	- (NSArray *)ks_domains;
	
Splits the host up into its domains. e.g. `http://www.karelia.com` gives `(www, karelia, com)`

URL Paths
=========

Mac OS X 10.6 gave us a bunch of new URL methods like `-URLByDeletingLastPathComponent`. If you wanted access to this behaviour before, it necessitated much tedious mucking about with `NSString` path methods, or using `CFURL` functions. KSURLUtilities gives simple Cocoa APIs for all these tasks on 10.5 and earlier:

	- (NSString *)ks_lastPathComponent;
	- (NSString *)ks_pathExtension;
	- (NSURL *)ks_URLByAppendingPathExtension:(NSString *)pathExtension;
	- (NSURL *)ks_URLByDeletingLastPathComponent;
	- (NSURL *)ks_URLByDeletingPathExtension;
	- (BOOL)ks_hasDirectoryPath;
	- (NSURL *)ks_URLByAppendingPathComponent:(NSString *)pathComponent isDirectory:(BOOL)isDirectory;

Incrementing a Path
===================

On occasion there is a need to try to find the best available filename/path for a task. e.g. Choosing a filename that won't conflict with ay existing file. To simplify this, `-[NSString ks_stringByIncrementingPath:]` is offered. Given the path `example.png`, it will cycle through like so:

	example.png
	example-2.png
	example-3.png
	example-4.png
	…

More information on the implementation and use of this method is on [Mike's blog](http://www.mikeabdullah.net/incrementing-paths.html)

KSFilePromise
=============

Simplifies handling file promises from drag & drop in a document-based application. KSFilePromise instances are created from `NSDraggingInfo`, and take responsibility for management of the received file.

KSWebLocation
=============

A simple class that represents a URL, optionally with a title attached. Features:

- Handles Web Location files (e.g. those created by dragging a URL from Safari)
- `NSCoding`
- `NSCopying`

You can pull in the `WebKit.framework`-dependent KSWebLocationPasteboardAdditions too, to (unsurprisingly) gain support for reading and writing Web Locations from/to the pasteboard.

Other file/URL utilities
========================

- [PRHDataURL](https://github.com/boredzo/PRHDataURL)

License
=======

Copyright © 2005-2013 Karelia Software

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

### IFUnicodeURL

If using KSURLFormatter, it relies upon IFUnicodeURL which has the following license:

Copyright 2010 Iconfactory, Inc. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are
permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

   1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of
      conditions and the following disclaimer.

   2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list
      of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials
      provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY Iconfactory, Inc. ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL Iconfactory, Inc. OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

The views and conclusions contained in the software and documentation are those of the
authors and should not be interpreted as representing official policies, either expressed
or implied, of Iconfactory, Inc.

### IDN SDK

And IFUnicodeURL in turn relies upon VeriSign's IDN SDK:

/*************************************************************************/
/*                                                                       */
/* VeriSign XCode (encode/decode) IDN Library                            */
/*                                                                       */
/* A library for encoding / decoding of domain strings.                  */
/*                                                                       */
/* (c) VeriSign Inc., 2003, All rights reserved                          */
/*                                                                       */
/*************************************************************************/

/*************************************************************************/
/*                                                                       */
/* Copyright (c) 2003, VeriSign Inc.                                     */
/* All rights reserved.                                                  */
/*                                                                       */
/* Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or            */
/* without modification, are permitted provided that the following       */
/* conditions are met:                                                   */
/*                                                                       */
/*  1) Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright    */
/*     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.     */
/*                                                                       */
/*  2) Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright */
/*     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in   */
/*     the documentation and/or other materials provided with the        */
/*     distribution.                                                     */
/*                                                                       */
/*  3) Neither the name of the VeriSign Inc. nor the names of its        */
/*     contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived   */
/*     from this software without specific prior written permission.     */
/*                                                                       */
/* THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS   */
/* "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT     */
/* LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS     */
/* FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE        */
/* COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,   */
/* INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,  */
/* BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS */
/* OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED    */
/* AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT           */
/* LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN     */
/* ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE       */
/* POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.                                           */
/*                                                                       */
/* This software is licensed under the BSD open source license. For more */
/* information visit www.opensource.org.                                 */
/*                                                                       */
/*************************************************************************/

/*************************************************************************/
/*                                                                       */
/* Authors:                                                              */
/*                                                                       */
/*  John Colosi (VeriSign)                                               */
/*  Lihui Zhang (VeriSign)                                               */
/*  Srikanth Veeramachaneni (VeriSign)                                   */
/*  Jim Mathies (VeriSign)                                               */
/*                                                                       */
/*************************************************************************/
